# 1.2 Benefits of an inclusive approach

Owner: Anna Krukowska
Created time: June 6, 2024 10:07 PM

Accessibility is about ensuring the same experience for a wide variety of users who:

- Experience life-long disabilities. These may include visual, hearing, cognitive, speech, and physical impairments.
- Experience hidden disabilities like dyslexia or color blindness.
- Are on the ADHD or Asperger's spectrum.
- Experience life-changing or temporary injuries that may limit their interaction.
- May not be as technologically adept as the younger generation.
- Use outdated hardware.
- Fall into unexpected circumstances.

**We might be temporarily fit for now, but we will be limited at some point in our lives**.

Certainly, some individuals among your students and customers may have visible, invisible, or temporary lack of access to specific news or services.

There are different types of barriers to encounter and overcome:

- **Permanent barriers** are the result of a longstanding medical condition.
- **Temporary barriers** appear due to short-term injuries or conditions, such as ear infections, having atropine eyedrops applied to the eyes, having a broken limb, or suffering from migraine or insomnia.
- **Situational barriers** arise due to certain situations, such as trying to listen to a video in a noisy restaurant or next to a sleeping baby, filling a form on a mobile device in bright sunlight or without glasses, or carrying out a task with one free hand while holding a child in the arms.

ALT: A group of people standing in rows, divided according to the senses (touch, see, hear, speak) and divided into three categories: permanent, temporary, and situational constraints.

Without knowing what people exactly must overcome on a daily basis, or ad hoc, you can address their needs and still help them fulfill required actions.

There are several dimensions to consider when talking about human health and functionality:

- **Physical strength** – depends on the health and capabilities of the body. The user's performance depends on muscular strength, flexibility, and body composition.
- **Cognitive performance** – ****depends on the functioning of the brain. It includes mental acuity, memory, learning ability, and the ability to solve problems and make decisions.
- **Emotional capacity** – refers to the management of emotions and mental resilience. It includes the ability to express emotions healthily and effectively.
- **Social skills** – include the ability to interact with others. It's about communication skills, empathy, and the ability to work cooperatively with others.

As for cognitive barriers, there are several key elements that you need to consider:

- **Concentration** – it may be challenging to focus on the content when certain conditions are present: a permanent condition such as ADHD or dyslexia, a situational circumstance like being in a rush due to limited time or experiencing nervousness, a temporary state such as being on strong medication or being extremely fatigued.
- **Decoding the text** – it can be particularly difficult for older adults, those with visual impairments, or dyslexia. They may need to strain their eyesight or even reread the content multiple times to fully understand the information being presented to them.
- **Processing the message** – complex terminologies or complicated sentence structures can pose a challenge in understanding the message.
- **Acting based on the message** – the message is not only understood but also prompts the correct action or response from the audience.