# 1.3 Prioritizing accessibility

Owner: Anna Krukowska
Created time: June 6, 2024 10:07 PM

People aren’t always comfortable disclosing their disability. Some impairments aren’t visible.

To ensure meeting their needs, the best option is to provide accessibility for all users, whether they need it or not. Not all people who enable subtitles are deaf. Not all people who use a zoom function have low vision. **Prioritizing accessibility is about being kind to others**.

Accessibility isn’t about having the right technical skills but having the **accessibility first mindset**.

It is beneficial to prioritize user experience (UX) on mobile devices from the earliest stage of any project. This is equally true of accessibility, which should be considered right from the start.

Instead of considering accessibility as an extraordinary add-on that can be added at the end of the product life cycle, it should be part of the planning. If left to be considered at a later stage, incorporating accessibility could prove to be not only more difficult but also very costly. Imagine architects having to redesign brand-new buildings to retrofit them for wheelchair access after people have moved in.

With the accessibility first approach, you avoid the necessity to redo half of the elements at the end of a process to comply with accessibility guidelines. The goal is to identify and prevent problems at the design stage and implement necessary elements at the development stage.

Therefore, prioritizing accessibility from the project kick-off is a smart strategy which can save your time, money, and effort in the long run.

If you don't take care of accessibility now, it will generate costs when you are forced to address users' complaints in the future.