# 2.3 WCAG-compliant videos

Owner: Anna Krukowska
Created time: June 6, 2024 10:07 PM

By following the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, you can maximize the impact of your content.

WCAG-compliant videos can **boost audience engagement and understanding**. Many people with disabilities rely on assistive technologies to access online content. These videos ensure compatibility with screen readers, captions software, and other tools, allowing a wider range of users to enjoy your work.

To let your users, regardless of their abilities, engage with live content as it happens and with prepared in-advance content, provide them with automatically generated or manually created text and audio.

Features like captions and audio descriptions ensure that everyone can grasp the nuances of your video, even if they have difficulty hearing the dialogue or seeing all the visual elements.

- **Captions** (prerecorded): They are a text transcript of the spoken dialogue and audio information. Captions are displayed on the screen when the corresponding audio of a prerecorded media file is being played. They serve as a complete audible experience in text form and should be perfectly synchronized with the spoken audio. Furthermore, they also convey sound effects, non-speech sounds, and speaker identification to give the viewers a comprehensive understanding of the scene. Captions to prerecorded video should be highly accurate. They can be created manually or through automated speech recognition software.
- **Captions** (live): They provide text synchronized with live media, such as webinars, presentations, and video conferences. Live captions are synchronized with the live media as much as possible. Due to the processing time required for speech, there might be a slight delay compared to the dialogue’s timing. The speaker identification might be limited. The description of non-speech sounds might be omitted. Live captions may have a higher error rate due to the real-time nature of speech recognition. They are typically generated by automated speech recognition software.
- **Audio description** (prerecorded): It’s an additional, narrated track that provides a spoken description of key visual elements, not present in the dialogues. It contributes to the overall comprehension of the content for those who can't see the screen. Audio Description describes the following: the physical environment, locations, and overall atmosphere of the video, the appearance, clothing, and body language of characters, their actions and their interactions.
- **Transcription** (prerecorded): It is a text-based alternative to audio content for those who may prefer to read or those who may need to refer back to the resource later. It can also be beneficial for search engine optimization (SEO).

To offer accessible videos, provide the following:

1. **Clear descriptions**: Don't rely solely on visuals to convey information. Include a text description that accurately explains what's happening in the video, even if it's a simple image. Make sure the user can get the whole story from either the picture or the written description.
2. **Dual communication**: Make sure the main message is understood through both the video itself and the written description. People who can't hear or see the video should still be able to grasp the content.
3. **Alternative text (Alt)**: Describe the element in a way that conveys useful information to the user. Provide a brief and accurate text for elements, such as graphics, diagrams, GIFs, screenshots, and images. It is worth emphasizing that the Alt text is important in the context of film description, not the films themselves. Alt text is displayed on the page if the image fails to load. Alt text is also indexed by search engines.