# 4.1 Guidelines

Owner: Anna Krukowska
Created time: June 6, 2024 10:07 PM

The following list outlines key phases of creating inclusive and engaging videos that will help you reach a wider audience.

1. **Plan your content and tools**:
- Define your target group and recording space.
- Outline the key objectives for your content. Break down complex ideas into smaller chunks.
- Prepare visuals and extra activities for your audience.
- Explore the interface of a recording tool and get familiar with the different recording modes.

1. **Create the environment**:

**For filming**:

- Prepare your workstation.
- Arrange the background.
- Check the quality of the lighting. Ensure good lighting in your recording space. Avoid harsh shadows or backlighting.
- Check the quality of the sound system.
- Invest in an additional microphone if your computer's built-in mic doesn't offer good audio quality.

**For recording the screen**:

- Select a region or a window.
- Disable functions that you do not need, such as web recording or screen cursor.

1. **Create a video**:
- Maintain eye contact with the camera as if you're talking directly to your audience.
- Draw attention to key points on your screen by highlighting specific areas or adding annotations on the fly.
- Keep it simple. Avoid overloading your video with too much information or complex ideas.

1. **Edit your video**:
- Ensure smooth transitions between scenes and a logical flow of information.
- Introduce key concepts visually with clear title cards.
- Incorporate visuals like pictures, diagrams, or short video clips to enhance understanding.
- Keep the background music low to avoid interfering with the dialogue.

1. **Add captions**:
- Use a captioning tool.
- Check if captions are synchronized with the audio. They should appear on the screen precisely as the corresponding dialogue is spoken.
- Use simple and concise language.
- Choose a sufficient font size with high-contrast color for easy reading. Required contrast ratios between text and the background are 4.5:1 for regular text and 3:1 for large text (18 pt or 14 pt + bold).

1. **Create a transcription**:
- Provide a clear written representation of your video's audio content.
- Play your video and type as you watch all dialogues and narration word-for-word into a text editor.
- Listen for non-verbal sounds and include them in brackets within your transcript, for example [laughter], [upbeat music].
- Download an automatically generated transcription from a video creator tool.
- Ensure the transcripts accurately reflect the audio content of your video.
- Format the transcription for readability. Add clear headings to separate sections in your transcript and break up the text into paragraphs.
- Add timestamps to help your viewers easily reference specific parts of the video, for example, "[0:30] Hello everyone, and welcome to ..."
- Offer transcripts as a separate document for people who prefer reading and using written references.
- Consider offering transcripts in multiple formats, e.g., PDF, or Word document.

1. **Write an audio description**:
- Insert audio descriptions during natural pauses in the dialogue or narration to ensure that individuals can hear both the description and the main audio content of a video.
- Use a clear and natural voice to describe key visual elements for blind or visually impaired individuals.
- Provide a spoken narration of scenes and settings - locations, overall atmosphere; characters’ appearance and clothes, their actions and interactions; and important objects.
- Don't describe every single detail in your video. Focus on the essential elements that are crucial for understanding the context.
- Use clear language. Avoid jargon or technical terms.

1. **Test and revise**:
- Preview your video.
- Test yourself the recorded content and generated sounds.
- Review your captions, transcription, and audio description.
- Check your audio description.
- Test your content with the target audience. It is crucial to have it checked by impaired users.