# 4.2 A step-by-step guide for beginners

Owner: Anna Krukowska
Created time: June 6, 2024 10:07 PM

This instruction walks you through making an accessible video using the Snagit screen capture (desktop application) and the Clipchamp video editor (web application).

Pre-requisitions:

1. Download and install [Snagit](https://www.techsmith.com/download/snagit) (2-week free trial).[](https://www.techsmith.com/download/snagit)
2. Open a Microsoft [Clipchamp](https://app.clipchamp.com/login) account (free of charge).
3. Choose a text editor (Word, Google Docs, Notepad++).

Objective: **To add accurate captions and well-formed transcriptions to a video**.

How to record your screen?

1. Open **Snagit Capture**.
2. Select **Video**.
3. Select **Region** or **Window**.
4. Adjust settings - disable Record Webcam, and Capture Cursor (buttons turn gray).
5. Click the red button to start a recording.
6. Click the blue button to stop the recording.

How to edit your video?

1. Open the **Snagit Editor**.
2. Remove any unnecessary footage from the beginning or end of your video using the trimming tool (optional).
3. Create title cards that introduce key concepts or sections (optional).
4. Add music at the beginning or as a background (optional).
5. Save your video in a format compatible with Clipchamp (mp4).

How to add captions to your video?

1. Open **Clipchamp**.
2. Click **Create a new video**.
3. Click **Import media** to upload your video to Clipchamp.
4. Drag and drop your video to start editing it.
5. Click **Captions (CC)**.
6. Click **Transcribe media**.
7. Select a language from a dropdown.
8. Click **Transcribe media**.
9. Choose font size, font style and color for your generated captions.
10. Edit the automatically generated text for accuracy (spelling, grammar, punctuation).
11. Adjust the timing of each caption.
12. Check captions synchronization with the audio.

How to create a transcription for your video?

1. Click **Download captions (srt)** to have a transcription file.
2. Open your file with a text editor.
3. Format the new text by using headings, bullet points, and spacing.
4. Save the transcription as PDF.

FOTO 6

ALT: A dark mode view of Clipchamp video editor while editing captions.